Appium installation:
you can install Appium via Node.js
---  npm install -g appium

Download and Configure Appium Client Libraries
--- pip install Appium-Python-Client

Configure Your Android Device
Enable Developer Mode:

Go to Settings > About phone.
Tap Build number 7 times until you see a message like "You are now a developer!".
Enable USB Debugging:

Go to Settings > Developer Options.
Enable the USB Debugging option.
Connect Your Android Device to Your PC:

Use a USB cable to connect the phone.
Grant the permission prompt on your phone that says "Allow USB Debugging?".

Download Android SDK Platform Tools
Download the tools for your operating system
Extract the Platform Tools
Once the download is complete, extract the ZIP file to a directory of your choice.
Example: C:\Android\platform-tools

Add ADB to Your System PATH
To use the adb command globally from any terminal or command prompt, you need to add the platform-tools directory to your system's PATH.

For Windows:
Search for Environment Variables in the Start menu and click on Edit the system environment variables.
In the System Properties window, click Environment Variables.
In the System Variables section:
Find the Path variable and click Edit.
Click New and add the path to the platform-tools folder.
Example: C:\Android\platform-tools
Click OK to close all windows.

Verify ADB Installation
Open a terminal (or command prompt).
---  adb version
Connect Your Android Device
Enable Developer Mode on Your Device:

Go to Settings > About phone.
Tap Build number 7 times until you see "You are now a developer!"
Enable USB Debugging:

Go to Settings > Developer Options.
Enable USB Debugging.
Connect the Device:

Use a USB cable to connect your Android device to your computer.
Approve any prompts on your device to allow USB Debugging.

Verify Device Connection
---  adb devices

List of devices attached
1234567890abcdef   device

Install the Necessary Driver
Open a Terminal or Command Prompt:

On Windows: Press Win + R, type cmd, and press Enter.
Navigate to the Appium Installation Directory: If you installed Appium via npm:
---  appium driver install uiautomator2
Verify Driver Installation: Run the following command to list installed drivers
---  appium driver list --installed
If needed, you can also install plugins to enhance Appium’s functionality. For example:
---   appium plugin install --source=npm appium-wait-plugin
List installed plugins:
---  appium plugin list --installed
You have the element-wait plugin installed (element-wait@3.0.2), but it hasn't been activated. If you need this plugin, you can activate it while starting the server using:
---  appium --use-plugins=element-wait
